Add containerized retail workflow (#1574)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/retail/pages/shared-central-dns.adoc

[[shared-central-dns]]
= Set Up the {productname} {smr} Environment with shared network between terminals, branch servers and {productname}

> To set up the {productname} {smr} environment, you will need to have already installed and configured {productname} Server, have one or more {productname} {smr} branch server proxies installed and one of more OS images built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up the {productname} {smr} environment, you will need to have already:

 * {productname} Server installed and configured
 * one or more {productname} {smr} branch server proxies installed
 * one of more OS images built.
```

== Assumptions

In this example we consider architecture with shared network between POS terminals, branch server and {productname} where branch server provides only PXE configuration and images.

In this example we provide [systemitem]``salt`` on kernel command line option and [systemitem]``ftp`` in pillar for saltboot service discovery.

We assume to have one regular branch server with salt minion id [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com``, which is equal to the branch server fully qualified domain name, and branch id [systemitem]``B0001``.

As a terminal we assume to have one terminal with hardware manufacturer [systemitem]``TerminalOEM`` and model [systemitem]``T1000``.

For POS image we assume to have one with name [systemitem]``POS_Image_JeOS7``.

> There is already existing external DHCP and DNS service. DHCP service is correctly configured to PXE boot from branch server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is already existing external DHCP and DNS service.
DHCP service is correctly configured to PXE boot from branch server.
```

== Create required system groups

> Following guide xref:reference:systems/system-groups.adoc[] we create following system groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow xref:reference:systems/system-groups.adoc[] to create the following system groups:
```

- [systemitem]``TERMINALS``
- [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000``
- [systemitem]``B0001``

First group is generic optional group for collecting all POS terminals. Second group is hardware type group for our POS terminal. Third group is mandatory branch group.

For more information about saltboot groups, see xref:retail:retail-install-setup.adoc[].

== Assign and configure formulas

We assign following formulas to the branch server:

- Branch Network
- Pxe
- Tftpd

.Procedure: Assign formulas to the branch server

. Select the [guimenu]``Formulas`` tab for the system [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com``
. You should see list of formulas in [guimenu]``Configuration`` sub-tab
. In displayed list select [systemitem]``Branch Network``
. In displayed list select [systemitem]``Pxe``
. In displayed list select [systemitem]``Tftpd``

> . Save assigned formulas by clicking on [guimenu]``Save`` button in top right corner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save assigned formulas by clicking [guimenu]``Save`` in top right corner
```

.Procedure: Configure Branch Network formula

. Select Branch Network formula from branch server formula list
. Unselect [systemitem]``Dedicated Nic`` check-box because we are not using dedicated network
. Keep the rest with default values
. In [systemitem]``Terminal Naming and Identification`` section edit [systemitem]``Branch Identification`` and set it to our branch id [systemitem]``B0001``
. Save the formula

.Procedure: Configure Pxe formula

. Select Pxe formula from branch server formula list
. At the end of [systemitem]``Kernel Command Line Parameters`` append [systemitem]``MASTER=branch1.mystore.com``
. Keep the rest with default values
. Save the formula

.Procedure: Configure Tftpd formula

. Select Tftpd formula from branch server formula list
. Set [systemitem]``Internal Network Address`` to [systemitem]``0.0.0.0``, this way tftp will be listening on any IPv4
. Set [systemitem]``TFTP base directory`` to [systemitem]``/srv/saltboot``
. Save the formula

[NOTE]
====

> Next two formulas are group formulas. Make sure you are editing those formulas in their respective groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next two formulas are group formulas
Make sure you are editing those formulas in their respective groups.
```

Group formulas are visible as assigned also on system level, but editing them will create system specific setting instead of group setting.
====

Assign [systemitem]``Saltboot Group`` formula to the [systemitem]``B0001`` group and [systemitem]``Saltboot`` formula to the [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000`` group.

.Procedure: Assign Saltboot Group formula to Branch group

. Navigate to menu:Systems[System Groups]
. Select group [systemitem]``B0001`, which is our branch group
. Select the [guimenu]``Formulas`` tab once in group details
. You should see list of formulas in [guimenu]``Configuration`` sub-tab
. In displayed list select [systemitem]``Saltboot Group``

> . Save assigned formulas by clicking on [guimenu]``Save`` button in the top right corner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save assigned formulas by clicking [guimenu]``Save`` in the top right corner
```

.Procedure: Configure Saltboot Group formula

. Select Saltboot Group formula from [systemitem]``B0001`` group formula list
. Set [systemitem]``Image download server`` to [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com``
. Unselect [systemitem]``Branch server is containerized proxy`` because this is not containerized proxy
. Save the formula

.Procedure: Assign Saltboot formula to hardware type group

. Navigate to menu:Systems[System Groups]
. Select group [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000`, which is our hardware type group
. Select the [guimenu]``Formulas`` tab once in group details
. You should see list of formulas in [guimenu]``Configuration`` sub-tab
. In displayed list select [systemitem]``Saltboot``

> . Save assigned formulas by clicking on [guimenu]``Save`` button in top right corner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save assigned formulas by clicking [guimenu]``Save`` in the top right corner
```

.Procedure: Configure Saltboot formula

. Select Saltboot formula from [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000`` group formula list
. Set [systemitem]``Disk Symbolic ID`` to [systemitem]``Disk1``
. Set [systemitem]``Device Type`` to [systemitem]``DISK``
. Set [systemitem]``Disk Device`` to [systemitem]``*``
. Set [systemitem]``Partition table type`` to [systemitem]``gpt``
. Click [systemitem]``+`` to add a partition
. Set [systemitem]``Partition Symbolic ID`` to [systemitem]``p1``
. Set [systemitem]``Partition Size (MiB)`` to [systemitem]``512``
. Set [systemitem]``Device Mount Point`` to [systemitem]``/boot/efi``
. Set [systemitem]``Filesystem Format`` to [systemitem]``vfat``
. Set [systemitem]``Partition Flags`` to [systemitem]``boot``
. Click [systemitem]``+`` to add a partition
. Set [systemitem]``Partition Symbolic ID`` to [systemitem]``p2``
. Set [systemitem]``Device Mount Point`` to [systemitem]``/``
. Set [systemitem]``OS Image to Deploy`` to [systemitem]``POS_Image_JeOS7``
. Save the formula

> After all procedures are done, apply highstate on the branch server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After all procedures are done, apply highstate on the branch server.
```
